# Wealthsimple Case Study

## Overview and Orgin
Wealthsimple is an easy-to-use beginner friendly platform that provides investment management solutions. Wealthsimple offers easy to navigate trading applications and offers easy to use robo advising. The main competitive edge Wealthsimple holds over its competitors is it is low to zero commissions, which means it is easily accessible to many people. Wealthsimple is making investing simpler especially for the investor that is not to technically experienced in investing. 
Wealthsimple was incorporated in September 2014 by Michael Katchen. 
The idea for starting Wealthsimple was based on Michael Katchen’s passion for providing financial advice. Michael was always extremely passionate about financial investments from a noticeably early age, and he recalls “always being that guy amongst my friends that people would come to for investment advice.” From his colleges an idea to create a platform for all people to learn investing emerged for Michael. platform Prior to finding Wealth simple Michael Katchen worked at a Silicon Valley based Startup named 1000memories. 1000Memories is a website that specializes in gathering ancestry data based off pictures uploaded on the site. The start-up was later bought by the now popular Ancestry.com, and with the experience of working at a successful start-up, Michael Katchen launched his own company.  
Michael Katchen initially raised $2 million in seed round just within the first few weeks. After the initial funding Michael was successful in raising another $10 million through a plus a potential $20 million each year after meeting certain checkpoints, through tech angel Power Financial Corporation. Power Financial Corportation is large investor in new tech companies, and they are a strong partner behind Wealthsimple.  

## Business Activites
Wealthsimple is creating easier access to investment instruments for the everyday regular Canadian. Wealthsimple offers robo advisor services, trading stocks and cryptocurrencies, as well as traditional high yield saving accounts. Traditionally investment has been for the elite and has been harder to access for everyday people. Wealthsimple creates investing easy through their easy-to-use apps which anybody with a smartphone can access. Wealthsimple argues the main selling point over its competitors is its insanely low fees. Wealthsimple provides commission free trading on their trading platform and provides exceptionally low fees on their robo advisor platform. These fees are unmatched within the Canadian market which puts Wealthsimple at an advantage over its competitors such as Questrade or any of the big 5 banks.
The intended customer is the everyday Candian with little to none experience in investing. Wealthsimple aims to make investing easy as it can for most people. Wealthsimple is really for anyone interested in investing and having an easy experience learning to do so.  
Exceptionally low to no commissions is what sets Wealthsimple apart from competitors. Some competitors charge up to $10 per trade and wealthsimple’s $0 a trade certainly sets Wealthsimple on the radar of the everyday normal Candian looking to get in to investing. Wealthsimple also has a quite easy to use interface making it easier for people to buy and sell equities. Other competitors to wealthsimple have extremely hard to understand technical interfaces which may overwhelm the everyday Canadian.  
Wealthsimple is a new company that is very innovative in its technologies. Wealthsimple uses robo advisors, through machine learning. This machine learning learns investor risk levels and pairs it with the right investments for that user. Wealthsimple also uses artificial intelligence for customer service interactions, to reduce customer service time. Wealthsimple also implements these technologies when users are signing up, by machine learning the machine can quickly learn if it is an actual legitimate human with proper documentation signing off. Machine learning in Wealthsimple’s business model is particularly useful especially for a new company as it helps keep costs low.  

## Landscape
The domain of the financial industry Wealthsimple is Investment management. Wealthsimple is in the business of providing services related to investing, whether that’s robo advice, or just buying and selling stocks.  
Many bigger personal investment platforms are moving over to lower and no fees and this is a trend that will continue in the Canadian financial industry as it did in the American financial industry. In recent years trading platforms in the US such as RobinHood, WeBull, Voyager, have all moved from the traditional commission-based method into commission free trading. This trend of commission free trading has attracted many new first-time investors and has threatened traditional investment firms and banks. Technology such as machine learning and artificial intelligence are also a major trend in this industry and is completely taking over how people invest. Traditionally investing has been for the rich and elite and simply has been out of reach for normal everyday people. Through technologies that run services such as robo advising it has made it more accessible for the everyday person to start investing without any experience and with low as $1. Personal finical investment platforms that offer these services will thrive in the future and will potentially disturb the business of the big players in this industry such as the banks.  
The major companies in this domain are bigger financial firms and banks. Many of these follow traditional old methods of investing and this has created an opportunity for new companies to emerge in this field. Banks charge insanely higher fees than these low-cost counterparts and offer services that are not easily accessible for the normal everyday person who may not have much knowledge of investing. The fact that you can start off investing as little as $1 with many of these low-cost financial platforms is unmatched with the conditions of investing these bigger banks and firms have.  

## Results
The impact of Wealthsimple is huge for Canadians, Being Canada’s first real zero commission-based trading platform and offering insanely low fees on robo advisor Wealthsimple has creating its name as the go to investing platform for many new Candian Investors. Many new investors are hesitated to get started in investing due to technical terms or high fees associated with traditional investment institutions, and this is where Wealthsimple has created a spotlight for itself. Wealthsimple is the largest low to no commission investing platform in Canada and this has introduced many new Canadians to investing.  
Wealthsimple is currently competing with the larger players in the personal investment area and is currently the largest robo advisor in Canada. Wealthsimple is also aiming to be in the top list of brokerages in Canada, as they have been seeing a steady increase in signups, especially since the beginning of the pandemic. Many new investors started to get into investing over this pandemic, and Wealthsimple has certainly capitalized on that. Wealthsimple relative to its competitor grew more in terms of organic growth simply due to the substantial amounts of inexperienced users signing up during the pandemic. Wealthsimple offers easy to use interfaces with insanely low fees that their competitors simply cannot offer and that is why millions of new investors choose Wealthsimple rather than their traditional investment management methods.

## Recommendations 
If I were to advice Wealthsimple, I would recommend them to be more friendly towards experienced traders and offer more technical platforms for well-established investors. Wealthsimple tries to make investing easy as possible for new investors, and that is why they do not have many technical tools that other platforms offer. Many well-established investors look for specific tools and applications when choosing investment platforms. Right now, Wealthsimple is primarily targeting new investors or someone with little technical skills. Wealthsimple does not offer the same tools as its counterparts, for example they do not provide real time data. For experienced traders real time data is especially important and this is something Wealthsimple should work towards. Overall, the company is doing very well catering to inexperienced investors, however, to make Wealthsimple Canada’s top investment platforms it needs to cater to its experienced and more technical investors.  
Wealthsimple could server a larger cliental and still have their low to zero commission business model which would make them the top platform in Canada. Most bigger players charge higher fees; however, they provide essential tools that are particularly important to experienced investors. If Wealthsimple could simply offer more it would put their company on a competitive edge compared to its competitors.  
These additional products would require the team at Wealthsimple to work with development and try to implement some important tools. Real time data would require the team to work with third parties that can provide this data and then distribute it amongst users. Some of the other technical tools such as better charts will also have to be implemented by the development team at Wealthsimple. Wealthsimple could also use machine learning to help individuals pick individual stocks that are related to the person’s style of investing. Currently the robo-advisor helps advise individuals what portfolio’s their money should be invested in; however, it would be useful to incorporate machine learning in picking individual stocks as well.  
Wealthsimple could create different platforms for professional and new investors, so that way the new investors still have the easy accessibility of Wealthsimple and the professionals get the tools and technical data they need. Wealthsimple already uses machine learning, however they could improve it by incorporating a larger type of investment methods through it, for example with individual stock picking. Wealthsimple could offer services such as  Wealthsimple needs to incorporate the different technologies needed for higher outputs of data, and they would have to do so through their development teams. 